---
layout: post
title: Replacing the 1117 Voltage Regulator. 
subtitle: Time to say good bye to everyones favorite jellybean LDO.  
tags: [electronics]
comments: false
---

# This is WIP 



Most People who work with electronics know the 1117 voltage regulator, its a popular jellybean component.
The 1117 is often chosen because of its availability from various vendors and low price, a search on LCSC yields over 600 results! And the cheapest one is 3 USD cents!
If the component is so easily available and cheap why would we want to replace it?
The main drawbacks of the 1117 are 

- High Dropout Voltage
- High Quiescent current 
- Requires minimum Current.  
- Unstable with MLCC capacitors.
- Relatively large package size. 


### High Dropout Voltage

While the large dropout voltage doesnt present an issue for USB powered devices, the 1117 is unsuitable for battery powered devices.
Why is that? The Dropout Voltage of a Voltage specifies the Voltage difference that is needed between the Input and output to regulate.
Lets assume a 3.3V device we want to power from USB:
Most 1117 Datasheets mention ~1.1V Droput Voltage at around 100mA 
(The Droput voltage is not constant, its depending on In/Output Voltage, Current and ambient temperature)


```
VIN-VOUT
5V-3,3V = 1.7V 
VDIFF-VDROP
1.7V-1.1V = 0.6V 
```

This gives the regulator 600mV headroom to regulate.
A fully charged Lithium battery starts at 4.2V, We want to power the same 3.3V circuit as before using that battery. 

4.2-3.3V = 0.9V 

The voltage difference is too small and the 1117 cant regulate. 


Another important factor, is the Quiescent current, this is the current that the 1117 needs on its own to work.   This value also changes with temperature and load current.  The maximum values range from 2mA to whopping 10mA depending on the manufacturer.  Thus if you want to reduce the power consumption of your board, its better to consider another Voltage regulator. 




Voltage regulators are essentially adjustable resistors, the   


The 1117 is a dated design based 



